%title About Me 

%toc

<h1 class="justcenter"> About Me </h1>

== Self Description ==

My name is Zhaosheng Zhang, from People Republic of China. I got my Bachlor degree in Hefei Univerisity of Technology (HFUT) at Jun. 2011. Now, I am attending Master Program in University of California, Riverside.

== Me on Internet ==

[[http://www.weibo.com/happily84 | WeiBo ( Chinese Twitter )]] | [[http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100001494083125 | FaceBook]] | [[http://www.twitter.com/happily84 | Twitter]]

[[http://www.seanzhang.tk/resume/zhaosheng_resume.pdf| Official Resume]] | [[Mailto:happily84@gmail.com| Email me]]

== Publication ==

    - Electromagnetic-node based multi-agent collaboration in Robocup Simulation. `Zhaosheng Zhang`, Baofu Fang, Ming Gao, Sai Wu, Xiao Li; Journal of Harbin Institute of Technology, Jul. 2011.
    - Machine learning based on axiology and its application in the visual decision of RoboCup Simulation 2D. `Zhaosheng Zhang`; Excellent dissertation for bachelor’s degree of Hefei University of Technology 2011, Jun.2011
    - HfutEngine2D 2010 Soccer Simulation Team Description Paper. `Zhaosheng Zhang`, Ming Gao, Baofu Fang, Hao Wang; RoboCup International Symposium 2010, Jun. 2010.

== Honor and scholarship ==

    - Excellent dissertation for bachelor’s degree of HFUT, Jun. 2011
    - Third place of Soccer Simulation 3D, RoboCup World Tournament 2010, Singapore, Jul.2010
    - 8th place of Soccer Simulation 2D, RoboCup World Tournament 2010, Singapore, Jul.2010
    - 4th place of Soccor Simulation 2D, RoboCup Iran Open 2010, Tehran, Iran, Apr.2010
    - Organization Committee(OC) Member, Soccer Simulation 3D League, RoboCup China Open 2009
    - Technical Committee(TC) Member, Soccer Simulation 2D League, RoboCup China Open 2009
    - OC vice-president and TC member, Soccer Simulation 2D League, RoboCup Anhui Province 2009
    - Scholarship for Scientific Research Achievement, HFUT, Dec.2009
    - First prize of Soccer Simulation 2D, RoboCup China Open 2009, Dalian, China, Nov.2009
    - Third place of Soccor Simulation 2D, RoboCup Anhui Privince Open, ChuZhou, China, Oct.2009
    - Outstanding Student Scholarship of HFUT, HFUT, Sep.2009

== Technical Skills ==

    - Programming language using
        - C++, Java
    - Technical background
        - Data structures and algorithms
        - Database management system
        - Operating system
        - Computer Architecture
        - Computer network
    - Project experience
        - Multi language programming: C,C#,python,bash 
        - Databases: MySql, AsterixDB
        - Web front end: html5+css3,javascript
        - Parallel computing: Hadoop, hyracks, CUDA programming 
        - Code management system: SVN , Git and Gerrit

== Course I took ==

=== Courses taken during graduate education in UC Riverside ===

==== DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ====
    
This is a paper based class concentrate on following topic: Index, Spatial Index, Join, Spatial Join, Temporal Database and Indexing, Transaction Management (Concurrency control and Crash recovery).

For the final project I implemented two top-k algorithms (Fagin's algorithm and No Random Access algorithm) on Hadoop framework.

==== DESIGH AND ANALYSIS OF ALGORITHM ==== 

This is an advanced algorithm class for graduate student. The main topic of this class is as following: Algorithm analysis, Divide and Conquer, Greedy, Some graph algorithms, Dynamic programming, Flow network.

==== DATA MINING TECHNIQUES ====

This class covers some basic procedures of data mining technique, Getting to know your data(Data objects and attribute types, Statistical Description of Data, Data visualization), Data preprocessing(Data cleaning, data integration, data reduction), Data mining(frequent patterns, associations, correlation), clutering analysis and classification.

==== TESTING AND VERIFICATION TECHNIQUES IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING ====

This is an advanced test class for graduate student. The class can be patition into two parts: software testing and software debugging.

For software testing the class covers the following topic: Test Generation(from Requirements and Finite State Machines), Test Adequacy (Assessment Using Control and Data Flow, Enhancement Using Mutation Regression), Testing (Test Selection, Minimization, and Prioritization).

For software debugging the class covers following topic: Fault location via Dynamic Slicing and State Alteration, Delta and Statistical debugging, Debugging parallel programming.

For the final project, I followed 3 specific coverage rules and use Gcov to select test cases for 7 benchmark programs and compare the result.

=== Courses taken during bachlor education in HFUT ===

TODO

<h6 class="timestamp"> Created Time: 2014/01/10 23:50:19.      Last Modified Time: 2014/01/10 23:51:07</h6>

